📝(doc) create complete documentation website for Meet (#1436)
numerique-gouv/meet: docs/contributing/backend.md

# Backend Development

The Meet backend is a Django 5.x application written in Python 3.13+.

## Tech stack

| Component | Technology |
|---|---|
| Framework | Django 5.x + Django REST Framework |
| Language | Python 3.13+ |
| Package manager | `uv` |
| Auth | mozilla-django-oidc |
| LiveKit integration | `livekit-api` (Python SDK) |
| Async tasks | Celery |
| Testing | pytest + pytest-django |
| Linting | Ruff |

## Running the backend

```bash
# Start the backend container (dev mode with hot reload)
docker compose up -d app-dev

# Django shell
docker compose exec app-dev python manage.py shell

# Apply migrations
docker compose exec app-dev python manage.py migrate

# Create superuser

> docker compose exec app-dev python manage.py createsuperuser

Reviewer: I guess, overall, across La Suite, we prefer to encourage developers to use make commands. That's a team practice, though, and it could be challenged.

```suggestion
make run-backend

# Django shell
docker compose exec app-dev python manage.py shell (we might add a command for this one if missing)

# Apply migrations
make migrate

# Create superuser
make superuser
```

```

## Settings

The backend uses `django-configurations`. The settings class is selected via `DJANGO_CONFIGURATION`:

- `Development` - debug mode, relaxed security
- `Demo` - production-like with demo data

> - `Production` - full production settings

Reviewer: we also have a test one

All settings live in `src/backend/meet/settings.py` as a single file using `django-configurations` class inheritance.

## Key models

```python
# core/models.py

class Room(models.Model):
    id = models.UUIDField(primary_key=True, default=uuid.uuid4)
    slug = models.SlugField(unique=True)
    name = models.CharField(max_length=255)
    access_level = models.CharField(...)  # public, authenticated, restricted
    configuration = models.JSONField(default=dict)
    created_by = models.ForeignKey(User, on_delete=models.CASCADE)

class Recording(models.Model):
    id = models.UUIDField(primary_key=True, default=uuid.uuid4)
    room = models.ForeignKey(Room, on_delete=models.CASCADE)
    status = models.CharField(...)  # initiated, active, stopped, saved
    mode = models.CharField(...)    # screen_recording, transcript
    key = models.CharField(...)     # S3 object key (path in bucket)
```

> After model changes, create and apply migrations:

Reviewer: Won't it be difficult to keep this duplicated code up to date? I'm concerned the documentation may drift over time, as developers are unlikely to remember to keep both in sync.

```bash
docker compose exec app-dev python manage.py makemigrations

> docker compose exec app-dev python manage.py migrate

Reviewer: same we do offer make commands
